# Predicting County Suitability for Various CO2 Removal Technologies in Virginia
### Rachel Holman, Grace Davenport, Lily Jarrett, Hana Nur

Carbon dioxide is the most prominent greenhouse gas in our atmosphere (Lashof & Ahuja 1990). To lessen the impact of CO2 levels in the atmosphere, various carbon dioxide removal (CDR) technologies can be deployed, such as biochar and reforestation. Where should these technologies be deployed? To answer this question, we implemented unsupervised and supervised ML models to predict suitability levels of Virginia counties across three CDR technologies. First, we implemented unsupervised ML models to cluster and label counties into four suitability levels: highly suitable, suitable, possible, and unsuitable for each CDR technology. Second, eight supervised ML models were deployed to predict each county suitability level. The model performance accuracies were very high, ranging from 82.4 - 100% with the exception of the underperforming Naive Bayes model. Temperature had a high feature importance score in all three CDR technologies. Income and agricultural land use were important features for enhanced weathering (EW) and biochar, but not reforestation. To complement these results, we performed a case study on six holdout counties. Our supervised ML models predicted that (1) Accomack, (2) Fauquier, and (3) Hanover counties were highly suitable for EW, due to their high carbon emission energy available. In the future, the scope of this project could be increased to state or even country level.
